Well, let's start with the next problem, knapsack problem.
And.
There are a lot of new things that we learn in this school.
A very famous classical problem.
Is there an item number one, two in for each item, i.e. has a v, w, a and a value by eight.
Dorothy decided to choose some of the negatives and carry them home in a knapsack.
Knapsack is a thick.
So the capacity of the knapsack is w that means this is the total weight it can carry w weight.
Which means that the sum of the variance of the item taken must be at most w5a bag which has a capacity
or other total weight.
And I have some items which have some certain weight since I was on sardine profits eight.
So everything is not good.
All of them are different.
They have their own values and their own weight.
What I want is I want a subset of those values to find the maximum possible sum of the values of items
that Thurrock can take home.
Basically what this.
And.
I want a subset.
I want a subset of this.
Items these Nathan's talking take home.
That means the total wage must be less than equal to W and the maximum possible sum of values it should
have.
That means V should be maximized.
Eight.
A subset.
That's the total total sum of values visas maximized.
And.
The total weight of all those of all the subset should be less than a greater number.
Very nice problem.
It's a very famous problem.
And.
We will do a brute force in this.
A brute force to what can be a brute force, guys?
So you'll understand a very new thing from this lecture if you listen very carefully.
And.
We never know that this thing that you're learning, this might help us solve the really big problems
we have.
We have that basic.
Eight.
What is the.
Brute force that we can code agents.
You're explaining.
I just called it out, and then you'll understand.
How is this working?
So what is the brute force, guys?
Let's say initially, my sack is empty.
Empty, sick.
Right.
So let's talk about the first example we have today.
Items three, four, five.
Maybe it's a three or five and the values are 30.
If they.
And 60.
It also cleared another idea be pigeonhole principle in the case.
Initially, the sack is empty.
What I have is if I try to brute force and that I can take the value.
Alex late added, I don't take not take the venue or I ignore it.
So I'm talking about the zero ten NICS.
Material, the zero two index item rate.
Item.
Yeah, I'm talking about the zeroth index item.
So.
And that I don't take it.
And this is then knapsack and then I take it.
And this is a knapsack.
Initially we have an empty knapsack.
And what is the.
Really profit.
Zero Total weight.
Zero eight.
If I don't take the first element.
So I like before moving on here.
We all know that how we can make all the possible subsets of any given area.
If I want to write, if I want to figure out all possible subsets, then what I'll do is I'll take the
element or I'll not take the element.
If I have three elements, every element has to join since take or not, take or not.
So how many subsets will be there possible to do the power?
Three.
Eight.
So I hope this is very clear to everyone of us.
If I want to call it out, if I want to figure out how to write all possible subsets, I can simply
apply recursion and the take or not.
So I think this has been already covered.
Integration and backtracking.
Just like.
Light over there and check it out.
Yeah.
So let's start with this problem.
When it is zero zero, let's continue with this.
If I don't take an item or I take an item later, I'll do this for all the items.
This is for the zero.
If I don't take the zeroth item, then I have six.
Rearden capacity zero only rates of weight and value and capacity of zero zero.
If I take the first item, what is the total capacity of an absolute correct me check.
You need.
It is the total capacity there w eight because if I take this knapsack, let me give it another color.
Eight.
It is zero zero and easily if I don't take it, is zero zero still.
If I take the first element, I can take the first alien because it has a bit of the late.
And the prophet is 32, the wait is three and the prophet is defending the first element.
Now, guys.
Let's move on to the next step, which is if this don't take the second element or take the second,
and similarly, don't take the second element or take the second element.
So what is the second element?
Let me.
Quickly make this eight.
Well, let's talk about this knapsack at zero zero.
That means zero value's zero capacity.
And I'm taking the second element.
If I don't take the second element, it will still be zero zero.
Because I'm not taking the element yet.
I'm taking the element.
Then it will become.
The profit will be 50 because zero plus 50 will be 50.
I'm taking it.
And the word will be for.
Eight similarly.
I'm glad I didn't say.
If you go, if you don't take the element and reject, eliminate.
So if you don't take it, it will become 30 and the only.
And if they agreed, it becomes four +27 rate.
So we can take it because.
Seven is less than eight.
The total capacity of the knapsack is seven and 50 plus today will be.
So this is the value we have.
So I hope you're getting this that what all these nodes represent, this node represents that no item
is taken.
This node represents.
Item number one is taken.
This represents.
Item number zero is taken.
And this represents both item one inside of what it can.
They'd pull.
So.
Yeah, let's move on to the next step.
Not taken and not taken.
You can.
Eight.
Oh, yeah.
Ignore this.
Here.
What we have is if I don't take this, then it is simply zero zero.
What is the third item is third item is five in 68.
So the five is the word and 60 is the value we've taken.
It becomes 60 on my right because I'm taking the third item.
Similarly, let's not take the third item here.
It will be 50 for 50 and for this will be 30 entity.
And similarly, this in reality in seven, because I'm not taking the third element, writing the third
element, it's where it is five.
The five plus four is nine.
So that means I cannot take that third element where I cannot take the third element, this.
I cannot take the third element with element one because the total weight will be nine, which is five
plus four.
And that exceeds my limit, which is eight.
So again, let's move on the right side here.
We have three plus five, which is eight.
And the maximum value will go to this 60 minutes 30, which is 90.
And what is the last one?
It is it be seven or eight.
It is already 18 seven.
That means I cannot take it.
So what are the oil subsidies that we get?
And we don't take anything zero zero we take only an element.
We take one entity.
We only one.
We take one we don't take, too.
But we take one.
Okay.
It's innovation.
So we take zero.
We don't take one and we don't take two.
Then this means we take zero.
We don't take one and we take the insulin.
So what is the maximum?
So we get 80, 60, maximum value, 50, 30, 90 and 80.
The maximum is 90, let's say.
Done.
So we go to 90.
How we go to 90?
We first.
Let's traceback.
Right.
That means we took the third element.
We did not.
We did not take the second element.
But we took the first element.
Between one combine, I have total weight to weight, which is less than a quarter.
The gap is there doing that basic and 60 minutes today which is 90.
I hope this sounds this makes sense.
We everyone know this is normal recursion, normal brute force.
It's called this Odin.
Well, somewhere differently and it's a working solution.
So let me quickly put this out.
Won't even take.
Two lines of code.
Well, I'm just checking if I have saved the previous one or not.
Vacation.
Not received vacation.
BP.
Yeah.
Let's open this and.
Let's complete it with a brute force, only brute force rate.
So what are the values that I have that CCP?
So what what are the total ranges here and is 100.
And.
Okay.
Here it is.
Via our turn to the bar five.
And values are tainted by name.
Well.
I don't think there should be a problem.
Right.
So let's stick.
And do we?
Because that's the total length.
But it's okay.
I already got this.
The first is values.
And it's only B.
And the second is W's.
See the debate.
It's called the final weight, which is captain W and we have and.
Right?
Yeah.
So let's take them as input.
So after going in as an input, I'll try to take.
W has the input, which is a total knapsack.
What I do is I simply out knapsack.
Eight.
And what I'll do is I simply say, okay, it started with an empty knapsack.
As I've explained to you, I will start with an empty knapsack and start with zero and zero.
That means.
Let me.
It should be made into knapsack.
Here.
What I have is I have a total value that I have got below my mind, the total weight that I've got below
eight.
And also we need a third sum, which is.
What's the third term, guys?
The third term is this.
That means.
Index that currently I'm on which index?
Aneesh Raman zeroth index then I'm on first indexing and when secondary next and so on eight.
So let's.
Index it.
Well, now, this is the total value.
This is the total weight and this is the index.
So.
Yeah.
Let me pass this.
So what happens is that I actually do not need this value to be boss.
Right, because that's what this knapsack is threatening me.
Right.
So it returns me.
That oldest.
Value or.
So maximum value.
I'm writing a recursive function which will return me the maximum value if I have.
It's like if I have if I'm on the third, if I'm on some particular index with this particular weight
eight again, these.
Although Nixon for all the bits.
We have only two days of options at their peak.
The item.
At this index or do not.
Big Exact.
Hey, Indianapolis.
Eight.
So.
If I do not take the item.
So let's move it up and let's move this down.
If I do not take the item at this particular index, I'm on some index.
I go.
Weird, right?
So if I want, I get there next.
And if I am not taking this item, that means what I simply say is I will say that answer should be
equal to the AP index.
Last one.
That means, okay, I'm not taking this.
Go to the next step as we saw in the.
The tree that we did go to the next index and the way it will remain as it is.
Well, this should be the answer or no.
And if I'm taking the item so there should be a condition if I take this item, that is what would be
the condition that w of index.
Plus whatever the word.
Is of the knapsack and I don't.
They should be less than equal to the total weight.
Then only I can include this item now.
What is this word?
That the word till now.
That means.
Let's come back to the trivia.
The way tolerate.
It means no matter how much item I have taken, I'm deciding a brute force addition.
The W index, which is rate of the current.
Item.
And this weight is actually the total weight which is being passed on, as I have already done, and
this is the total weight.
If this is less than this, then only I can do it.
What I'll do is I'll say, okay, answer this, max of answer Goma.
If I'm taking this.
Item, then the value should be included, which is v the let's call it v index.
Plus if I'm taking it.
What does it mean?
It go to the next.
Index, go to the next index.
That is index plus one and give me the best answer with the new rate.
What is a new word w an explicit.
Always.
That's what I was doing in this tree.
And then I'm taking it or not taking it and just passing on the vegetables.
I hope you can easily see this.
And then I take it or I don't take it when I'm taking it.
I just have a special condition that is the virtual realism and I'm simply adding the value of that
particular item to the knapsack and into them into the answer, and asking for the further answers that
give me the best values completed an answer from you.
They now?
But the basic is index goes out of bond.
So if index is greater than.
And or even equal to.
Maybe because we are considering zero based indexing, then what we can do is we can simply return some
very big value.
And let's say it is.
Index.
It can either go deal in the mix.
Yes.
So I think the answer is your answer can go tell Max because VA is extended by nine.
And.
Yeah.
So the values and in 202 it is and about 11 eight so yes it can go deal in make so let's take another
value which is the 1750.
So that part will already be entered because we have already defined long, long and do not to worry
about it.
The index goes greater than end district in 2015 and I let's build this.
Okay so before building.
Instead of Debbie.
We need to have knapsack again.
Mistake.
Knapsack and didn't let me stay.
I said, we have to go and end up with the input, but we're not taking the values and the weights.
I bet it's quickly.
Take them.
The W, a and b a.
Religious beliefs.
Okay.
That sounds so great.
I'm digging maximum.
Okay.
Right.
So if I don't have any option, do big items, whatever the base case, I'm not taking minimum wage,
I'm taking maximum.
But what is index are good isn't equal to end mean.
It means that I don't have anything to pick from.
I don't have any item.
I'm not able to pick any item.
What should be the answer?
What should be the maximum value?
Zero.
Right.
That makes him zero.
Yeah.
So it gives me 98.
And what if I take this?
It gives me fire into something great.
What if I take the third value?
It gives me.
Well.
Hey, so solving it was not my purpose.
I hope you understood the brute force, and I'm taking it or I'm not taking it.
It is part of the complexity of the solution.
Will this value by somebody?
It will not work.
Because the complexity of the solution is.
It will deliver in, as I already told you, that whenever we are trying to make subsidies, we are
giving two choices to every index and this type of banditry will come down.
Eight.
This should not be a grade because 200 is too much.
It's more than.
Life of this planet.
I guess it.
Provided.
I caught this out.
Why did I brute force her provided I wrote it.
Because I want to explain to you this, that there is a thing called pigeonhole principle.
So we've already told you what is a general principle.
It has already been well explained in the mathematics section.
Right.
So what does a pigeonhole principle mean?
Now let's focus on this case.
So here what I have is I have these two values which are w and values.
Eight.
Let's not talk about w n value.
Let's talk about indexes in which the.
All my recursion is only two values made every because function has only two values which are indexes
and.
Eight.
So can I see that if I have to do the power hundred different recursive calls.
All these to reduce 100 acres of gold and only have these many values which is indexes into weights,
which is an Obama w.
Eight.
The how many indexes commemorate.
Arguments can take place.
Means how many possibilities are there?
It is simply and into the possibilities.
That means indexes can go from.
Zero two and minus one.
And which can go from.
02w Hey, totally.
W Let's not worry about that.
What I'm trying to explain to you is that.
Due to the power hundred values already above 100 because records can be summarized into indexes and
weights and how many indexes and words are there they are only and in the w what is in for the problem?
It is handed what is W for the problem?
It is standard the power.
Right.
Let's take it.
Yeah.
Nobody's seen anything.
If I were at an end, isn't it okay.
What if I just make a recursive call?
What if I memorize it?
What if I memories the brute force?
Think about this.
What if?
If it is calculated, then don't get reelected again.
That's what memorization means, right?
The how many states are possible?
Actual states are above 100.
But if I memorize it on the basis of indexes and weights.
It's important.
But I want to reiterate that if I is the.
Solution though recursion with indexes and weights only.
That means how many times a call will be done?
Only ten to deep.
Over seven times.
Although we have to receive over 100 different recursive calls.
But it won't go to all the goals raised because they are only 27 states.
In the worst case, it will get a great alternative to over seven states on which it is going to.
Eight.
I regard this.
So it's kind of a pigeonhole principle think that I have only about seven states.
But there are over 100 sockets and all these sockets will contain only these states.
So why not just get rid of these stains only once?
Of course they will be the breeding suits because if there are so many suits possible to do, the behind
the scenes are possible.
That means they're there 100%.
They will be repeating suits.
Eight.
And there will be many riveting states because unique series set into the seven only.
Goldman, was it?
So how do we perform them acquisition?
I've already explained to everyone and it's 75 is the word.
So let's say when you buy plus one because it can be W, right.
So before calling the knapsack, let's.
Mm.
32 minus one size of memo.
Called an epidemic.
And here what we have is.
Yeah.
Memo.
Look after the biscuits.
What we'll do is we'll simply say that.
Answer is this.
But before this, it's.
Do it my way, as already explained.
So the answer is he goes to memo.
Index.
We?
As we know it is never going about W because we have this check or whatever.
It should always be less interview than only we are getting it.
Eight.
So.
Yeah.
So this is not my musician.
Part.
If answer is not equal to minus one return answer.
Otherwise the answer will be this it will override.
And.
Yeah.
It will be saved in memory itself.
Well, let's build this again.
We have some elders.
25, blessed one.
Yeah.
The 100001.
Well, we are getting 17.
Yeah, 17 is the answer.
Now tell me, guys, how many calls will be made?
There will be only index comma type of calls.
I leave you with having brute force to deliver 100 calls.
But here we have introduced an additional argument, which is weight by introducing weight.
What we get is we get a limited number of states.
Hey, those people, you know, most states can be moist so that they are not getting injured again
and begin to add in the pollution.
So let's copy this.
Instead.
And some of you know, guys, if I have applied memorization, then what is the total complexity of
this?
How many times regression will be formed?
In the worst case, it will retain its power by even retaining the power to be distinctive over seven.
It should work in the given day.
So as we can see, we have got the better dancer.
Eight.
And of course the time to gain is too much because regression is being called again and again.
So this was my purpose of solving this.
And sometimes you just write brute force and memorize it.
It works.
Because of the.
Arguments, a limited number of states.
So this was another way of thinking about it and improve on the solution.
I've taken this way because after this again, you'll see that we have different explanations of knapsack
problem.
Ultimately, we are the explanation, as it were, before this or to this, I'm not sure.
But here is a different way to imagine it.
It.
The box of starting from two different sectors.
Great.
In the next part, guys.
Thank you.